README.md, before:

# f5-openstack-docs
Documentation for all f5 openstack projects
[![Build Status](https://magnum.travis-ci.com/F5Networks/f5-openstack-docs.svg?branch=master)https://magnum.travis-ci.com/F5Networks/f5-openstack-docs/]

# What It Does

This repo houses the configuration materials for the [openstack.f5.com] website. We use [Jekyll] and [Travis CI] to build and to deploy the site, respectively.

# How It Works
When a change is committed to the GitHub repo, a Travis CI build kicks off automatically. The build script uses the `jekyll build` command to build the site, then runs [`HTML::Proofer`] to check the code. After a successful build, the site is automatically deployed.

## How It *Really* Works
In the `.travis.yml` file, we tell Travis to do the following:
    1. Run a build script (cibuild.sh)
        `bundle exec jekyll build -d {dir_name}` | tell jekyll to build the site into the \{dir_name\} folder
        `bundle exec htmlproof ./{dir_name}`  | tell the HTML::Proofer to check the content of the \{dir_name\} folder
        `cp -R ./{dir_name} $HOME/{dir_name-latest}` | tell jekyll to copy all of the content of the \{dir_name\} folder to a new folder in its local home directory
        `cd $HOME`
       `git config --global user.email "travis@travis-ci.org"`  | give travis some git credentials
        `git config --global user.name "travis-ci"`  | 
        `git clone --quiet --branch=site https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/$TRAVIS_REPO_SLUG site` | clone the repo into travis' local home directory

        cd site
        `git rm -rf ./{dir_name}`  |
        cp -Rf $HOME/{dir_name}-latest ./{dir_name}
        git add -f .
        git commit -m "Latest successful travis build $TRAVIS_BUILD_NUMBER auto-pushed to {branch_name} branch [ci skip]"
        git push -fq origin site






[openstack.f5.com]:http://openstack.f5.com/
[Jekyll]:https://jekyllrb.com/
[Travis CI]:https://travis-ci.com/
[`HTML::Proofer`]:https://github.com/gjtorikian/html-proofer

Commit message:

Fixes Issue #10  - Travis authentication issues
Problem: Travis is unable to push content of site_build folder back to github repo bc authentication fails.

Solution: Za and Jeff explained that as long as we have the framework for building the site in github, we don't need the actual site there, too.

What I changed:
- removed the commands from the cibuild.sh script that told travis to clone the repo and push to the site branch
- removed the gh token section from .travis.yml
- removed the 'blacklist' section from .travis.yml

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://magnum.travis-ci.com/F5Networks/f5-openstack-docs.svg?token=9DzDpZ48B74dRXvdFxM2&branch=master)](https://magnum.travis-ci.com/F5Networks/f5-openstack-docs/)

# f5-openstack-docs
Documentation for all F5 OpenStack projects

## What It Does
This repo houses the configuration materials for [openstack.f5.com]. We use [Jekyll] and [Travis CI] to build and to deploy the site, respectively.

## How It Works
A Travis CI build kicks off automatically when a change is committed to this repo. The build script uses `jekyll build` to build the site, then runs [`HTML::Proofer`] to check the code. After a successful build -- i.e., jekyll built the site and the HTML proofer found no issues -- the site files generated by the build are pushed to the 'site' branch of the repo. That content is then automatically deployed to the root folder of the Dev bucket in S3. 

## F5 OpenStack projects


## Releases and Versioning
TBD




[openstack.f5.com]:http://openstack.f5.com/
[Jekyll]:https://jekyllrb.com/
[Travis CI]:https://travis-ci.com/
[`HTML::Proofer`]:https://github.com/gjtorikian/html-proofer
