docs/tutorials/add-f5-nova-flavors.rst, before:

.. _add-nova-flavors:

How to add the F5 flavors to OpenStack Nova
===========================================

.. important::

   By default, only admin users can create Nova flavors.
   See `OpenStack Horizon - Manage flavors`_ for more information.

You can add custom F5 flavors to OpenStack Nova using the `OpenStack CLI`_.
Commands follow the format ::

   $ openstack flavor create FLAVOR_NAME --id FLAVOR_ID --ram RAM_IN_MB --disk ROOT_DISK_IN_GB --vcpus NUMBER_OF_VCPUS

The values shown here reflect the requirements for BIG-IP Virtual Edition images v12.0 and later.


f5-1slot
--------

.. code-block:: console

   $ openstack flavor create f5-1slot --id auto --ram 4096 --disk 20 --vcpus 2

f5-ltm
------

.. code-block:: console

   $ openstack flavor create f5-ltm --id auto --ram 4096 --disk 50 --vcpus 2

f5-all
------

.. code-block:: console

   $ openstack flavor create f5-all --id auto --ram 4096 --disk 140 --vcpus 4

.. tip::

   If you're using the BIG-IP `Application Acceleration Manager`_ (AAM) module, increase the disk size to 160.



.. _OpenStack Horizon - Manage flavors: https://docs.openstack.org/horizon/latest/admin/manage-flavors.html
.. _Application Acceleration Manager: https://f5.com/products/big-ip/application-acceleration-manager-aam

Commit message:

update V1 branch for PC9 release (#255)
* Prep for PC9 release

- Remove branching strategy doc -- no longer correct and not necessary
- Versioning updates
- Add product tags to all docs
- correct agent versioning; replace versioning table to match CC release table format
- fix broken links & grammar; update release table

* Update conf.py

* Update releases_and_versioning.rst

* Fix 'applies to' version table; update version notices

* fix grammar

docs/tutorials/add-f5-nova-flavors.rst, after:

:product: F5 Agent for OpenStack Neutron
:product: F5 Driver for OpenStack Neutron
:product: F5 Templates for OpenStack Heat
:type: tutorial

.. _add-nova-flavors:

How to add the F5 flavors to OpenStack Nova
===========================================

.. important::

   By default, only admin users can create Nova flavors.
   See `OpenStack Horizon - Manage flavors`_ for more information.

You can add custom F5 flavors to OpenStack Nova using the `OpenStack CLI`_.
Commands follow the format ::

   $ openstack flavor create FLAVOR_NAME --id FLAVOR_ID --ram RAM_IN_MB --disk ROOT_DISK_IN_GB --vcpus NUMBER_OF_VCPUS

The values shown here reflect the requirements for BIG-IP Virtual Edition images v12.0 and later.


f5-1slot
--------

.. code-block:: console

   $ openstack flavor create f5-1slot --id auto --ram 4096 --disk 20 --vcpus 2

f5-ltm
------

.. code-block:: console

   $ openstack flavor create f5-ltm --id auto --ram 4096 --disk 50 --vcpus 2

f5-all
------

.. code-block:: console

   $ openstack flavor create f5-all --id auto --ram 4096 --disk 140 --vcpus 4

.. tip::

   If you're using the BIG-IP `Application Acceleration Manager`_ (AAM) module, increase the disk size to 160.



.. _OpenStack Horizon - Manage flavors: https://docs.openstack.org/horizon/latest/admin/manage-flavors.html
.. _Application Acceleration Manager: https://f5.com/products/big-ip/application-acceleration-manager-aam
