docs/support/partners.rst, before:

.. _f5ospartners:

OpenStack Platform Partnerships
===============================

F5 has tested and certified its integration with OpenStack distribution platform vendors such as Red Hat, Mirantis, and HPE, as well as SDN partners Cisco, PLUMgrid, and Nuage.
That means you can count on fully supported, validated OpenStack implementations.

Each of F5's OpenStack distribution partners provides comprehensive documentation for installing and configuring OpenStack.


.. _partner-cert-table:

.. table:: F5 Distribution Platform Certifications
   :column-alignment: left right right right

   ================================ =================== ======================= ===================
   Platform                         Platform version(s) F5 Connector version(s) OpenStack version
   ================================ =================== ======================= ===================
   `HPE Helion OpenStack`_          v4.x                v9.x                    Mitaka

                                    v3.x                v8.x                    Liberty

                                    v2.x                v7.x                    Kilo
   -------------------------------- ------------------- ----------------------- -------------------
   `Mirantis OpenStack`_            v9.0                v9.x                    Mitaka

                                    v7.0                v7.x                    Kilo
   -------------------------------- ------------------- ----------------------- -------------------
   `RedHat OpenStack Platform`_     v10                 v10.x                   Newton 
   
                                    v9                  v9.x                    Mitaka

                                    v8                  v8.x                    Liberty

                                    v7                  v7.x                    Kilo
   ================================ =================== ======================= ===================

Commit message:

update V1 branch for PC9 release (#255)
* Prep for PC9 release

- Remove branching strategy doc -- no longer correct and not necessary
- Versioning updates
- Add product tags to all docs
- correct agent versioning; replace versioning table to match CC release table format
- fix broken links & grammar; update release table

* Update conf.py

* Update releases_and_versioning.rst

* Fix 'applies to' version table; update version notices

* fix grammar

docs/support/partners.rst, after:

:product: F5 Agent for OpenStack Neutron
:product: F5 Driver for OpenStack Neutron
:product: F5 Templates for OpenStack Heat
:type: reference


.. _f5ospartners:

OpenStack Platform Partnerships
===============================

F5 has tested and certified its integration with OpenStack distribution platform vendors such as Red Hat, Mirantis, and HPE, as well as SDN partners Cisco, PLUMgrid, and Nuage.
That means you can count on fully supported, validated OpenStack implementations.

Each of F5's OpenStack distribution partners provides comprehensive documentation for installing and configuring OpenStack.


.. _partner-cert-table:

.. table:: F5 Distribution Platform Certifications
   :column-alignment: left right right right

   ================================ =================== ======================= ===================
   Platform                         Platform version(s) F5 Connector version(s) OpenStack version
   ================================ =================== ======================= ===================
   `HPE Helion OpenStack`_          v4.x                v9.x                    Mitaka
   -------------------------------- ------------------- ----------------------- -------------------
   `Mirantis OpenStack`_            v9.0                v9.x                    Mitaka
   -------------------------------- ------------------- ----------------------- -------------------
   `RedHat OpenStack Platform`_     v10                 v10.x                   Newton 
   
                                    v9                  v9.x                    Mitaka
   ================================ =================== ======================= ===================
