docs/lbaas/index.rst, before:

.. _openstack-lbaas-home:

F5 Integration for OpenStack Neutron LBaaS
==========================================

The |oslbaas| orchestrates BIG-IP Application Delivery Controllers (ADCs) with OpenStack Networking (Neutron) services.
The Integration consists of the `F5 Agent for OpenStack Neutron`_ and `F5 Driver for OpenStack LBaaSv2`_, which work together to configure F5 BIG-IP Local Traffic Manager (LTM) objects via the `OpenStack Networking API`_.

.. _os-lbaas-prereqs:

General Prerequisites
---------------------

This documentation set assumes that you:

- already have an operational |os-deployment| with |neutron| and |heat| installed; [#partners]_
- are familiar with `OpenStack Horizon`_ and the `OpenStack CLI`_; and
- are familiar with BIG-IP LTM concepts, the BIG-IP configuration utility, and ``tmsh`` commands.

.. seealso::

   See the :ref:`F5 OpenStack Solution Test Plan <solution test plan>` for information about minimum supported deployments.


|driver-long|
-------------

The |driver-link|, or |driver|, is F5's OpenStack Neutron LBaaSv2 service provider driver.
It picks up Neutron LBaaS calls from the RPC messaging queue and assigns them to the |agent-long|.

.. figure:: /_static/media/f5-lbaas-architecture.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 100%
   :alt: Diagram showing the architecture of the F5 Integration for OpenStack Neutron LBaaS. A user issues a neutron lbaas command; the F5 LBaaSv2 driver assigns the task from the Neutron RPC messaging queue to the F5 Agent for OpenStack Neutron. The BIG-IP Controller periodically reports its status to the Neutron database.

   F5 Integration for OpenStack Neutron LBaaS Architecture


|agent-long|
------------

The |agent-link|, or |agent|, translates from "OpenStack" to "F5".
It receives tasks from the Neutron RPC messaging queue, converts them to `iControl REST`_ API calls (using the `F5 Python SDK`_), and sends the calls to the BIG-IP device(s).

.. figure:: /_static/media/f5-lbaas-agent-to-BIG-IP.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 100%
   :alt: Diagram showing the operation of the F5 Agent for OpenStack Neutron. A user issues a neutron lbaas command; the F5 LBaaSv2 driver assigns the task to the F5 Agent for OpenStack Neutron; the BIG-IP Controller sends the command to the BIG-IP device as an iControl REST API call to add or edit the requested object.

   F5 Agent for OpenStack Neutron traffic flow

Key OpenStack Concepts
----------------------

.. _lbaas-agent-tenant-affinity:

Agent-Tenant Affinity
`````````````````````

When the Neutron LBaaS plugin loads the |driver|, it creates a global messaging queue.
The |agent-long| sends all callbacks and status updates to this global queue.
The |driver| picks up LBaaS requests from the global messaging queue in a round-robin fashion, then assigns the tasks to an available |agent| instance based on "agent-tenant affinity".


:dfn:`Agent-tenant affinity` is a relationship between an |agent| instance and an OpenStack "tenant", or project.
In brief, once an |agent| handles an LBaaS request for a particular OpenStack tenant, the |agent| has "agent-tenant affinity" with that tenant. That instance will handle all future LBaaS requests for that tenant (with a few caveats, noted below).

How "agent-tenant affinity" applies in LBaaS task assignment:

.. table:: Agent-tenant affinity for a new load balancer

   == ============================================================================
   1. You request a new load balancer (:code:`neutron lbaas-loadbalancer-create`).
   -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   2. The F5 LBaaSv2 driver checks the Neutron database to find out if an |agent|
      instance already has affinity with the tenant the load balancer request is
      for.
   -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   3. If the F5 LBaaSv2 driver finds an |agent| instance that has affinity with
      the load balancer's tenant, it assigns the request to that instance.
   -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   4. If the F5 LBaaSv2 driver doesn't find an |agent| instance that has affinity
      with the load balancer's :code:`tenant_id`, it selects an active |agent|
      instance at random.

      **The selected instance binds to the requested load balancer.**
      It will handle all future LBaaS requests for that load balancer.
   == ============================================================================

.. table:: Agent-tenant affinity for an existing load balancer

   == ============================================================================
   1. You update an existing load balancer
      (:code:`neutron lbaas-loadbalancer-update`).
   -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   2. The F5 LBaaSv2 driver checks the Neutron database to find out if an |agent|
      instance is already bound to the load balancer.
   -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   3. If the F5 LBaaSv2 driver doesn't find a bound |agent| instance for the
      load balancer, it looks for an instance that has affinity with the
      load balancer's tenant, then assigns the request to that instance.
   -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   4. If the F5 LBaaSv2 driver doesn't find an |agent| instance that has affinity
      with the load balancer's :code:`tenant_id`, it selects an active |agent|
      instance at random.

      **The selected instance binds to the requested load balancer.**
      It will handle all future LBaaS requests for that load balancer.
   == ============================================================================



.. important::

   If the |agent| bound to a load balancer is inactive, the F5 LBaaSv2 driver looks for other active agents with the same :ref:`environment prefix`.
   The F5 LBaaSv2 driver assigns the task to the first available agent it finds.
   The inactive |agent| remains bound to the load balancer, with the expectation that it will eventually come back online and be able to handle future requests.

   **If you delete an** |agent|, you should also delete all of its bound load balancers.

   To find all load balancers associated with a specific |agent| : ::

      neutron lbaas-loadbalancer-list-on-agent <agent-id>


Partnerships and certifications
-------------------------------

The |oslbaas| provides under-the-cloud multi-tenant infrastructure L4-L7 services for Neutron tenants.
In addition to community OpenStack participation, F5 maintains :ref:`partnerships <f5ospartners>` with several OpenStack platform vendors.
Each partner has a defined certification process that includes requirements for testing the |oslbaas| for vendor and community OpenStack compatibility.
See the :ref:`Solution test plan` for more information.

.. include:: /_static/reuse/see-also-lbaas.rst


.. rubric:: Footnotes
.. [#partners] Unsure how to get started with OpenStack? Consult one of F5's :ref:`OpenStack Platform Partners <f5ospartners>`.

.. _OpenStack Networking API: https://developer.openstack.org/api-ref/networking/v2/

Commit message:

Fixes #205 add Cisco OpFlex solution doc Turn HPB doc into a concept and create new task covering 'standard' and Cisco HPB solutions.
- Add link to OpenStack Nova to substitutions list
- add security groups and access doc
- correct reference to F5 Agent in diagram alt-text
- change title of HPB how to
- fix sphinx-build, grammar, linkcheck issues
- address code review from @mattgreene and @richbrowne
- fixup HPB doc based on code review

docs/lbaas/index.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: openstack; concept
   triple: lbaas; agent; driver

.. _openstack-lbaas-home:

F5 Integration for OpenStack Neutron LBaaS
==========================================

The |oslbaas| orchestrates BIG-IP Application Delivery Controllers (ADCs) with OpenStack Networking (Neutron) services.
The Integration consists of the `F5 Agent for OpenStack Neutron`_ and `F5 Driver for OpenStack LBaaSv2`_, which work together to configure F5 BIG-IP Local Traffic Manager (LTM) objects via the `OpenStack Networking API`_.

.. _os-lbaas-prereqs:

General Prerequisites
---------------------

This documentation set assumes that you:

- already have an operational |os-deployment| with |neutron| and |heat| installed; [#partners]_
- are familiar with `OpenStack Horizon`_ and the `OpenStack CLI`_; and
- are familiar with BIG-IP LTM concepts, the BIG-IP configuration utility, and ``tmsh`` commands.

.. seealso::

   See the :ref:`F5 OpenStack Solution Test Plan <solution test plan>` for information about minimum supported deployments.


|driver-long|
-------------

The |driver-link|, or |driver|, is F5's OpenStack Neutron LBaaSv2 service provider driver.
It picks up Neutron LBaaS calls from the RPC messaging queue and assigns them to the |agent-long|.

.. figure:: /_static/media/f5-lbaas-architecture.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 100%
   :alt: Diagram showing the architecture of the F5 Integration for OpenStack Neutron LBaaS. A user issues a neutron lbaas command; the F5 LBaaSv2 driver assigns the task from the Neutron RPC messaging queue to the F5 Agent for OpenStack Neutron. The F5 Agent periodically reports its status to the Neutron database.

   F5 Integration for OpenStack Neutron LBaaS Architecture


|agent-long|
------------

The |agent-link|, or |agent|, translates from "OpenStack" to "F5".
It receives tasks from the Neutron RPC messaging queue, converts them to `iControl REST`_ API calls (using the `F5 Python SDK`_), and sends the calls to the BIG-IP device(s).

.. figure:: /_static/media/f5-lbaas-agent-to-BIG-IP.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 100%
   :alt: Diagram showing the operation of the F5 Agent for OpenStack Neutron. A user issues a neutron lbaas command; the F5 LBaaSv2 driver assigns the task to the F5 Agent for OpenStack Neutron; the F5 Agent sends the command to the BIG-IP device as an iControl REST API call to add or edit the requested object.

   F5 Agent for OpenStack Neutron traffic flow

Key OpenStack Concepts
----------------------

.. todo:: add provider networks section; need to note the supported network types (vlan, vxlan, gre, opflex) somewhere; could be in the agent repo instead

.. _lbaas-agent-tenant-affinity:

Agent-Tenant Affinity
`````````````````````

When the Neutron LBaaS plugin loads the |driver|, it creates a global messaging queue.
The |agent-long| sends all callbacks and status updates to this global queue.
The |driver| picks up LBaaS requests from the global messaging queue in a round-robin fashion, then assigns the tasks to an available |agent| instance based on "agent-tenant affinity".


:dfn:`Agent-tenant affinity` is a relationship between an |agent| instance and an OpenStack "tenant", or project.
In brief, once an |agent| handles an LBaaS request for a particular OpenStack tenant, the |agent| has "agent-tenant affinity" with that tenant. That instance will handle all future LBaaS requests for that tenant (with a few caveats, noted below).

How "agent-tenant affinity" applies in LBaaS task assignment:

.. table:: Agent-tenant affinity for a new load balancer

   == ============================================================================
   1. You request a new load balancer (:code:`neutron lbaas-loadbalancer-create`).
   -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   2. The F5 LBaaSv2 driver checks the Neutron database to find out if an |agent|
      instance already has affinity with the tenant the load balancer request is
      for.
   -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   3. If the F5 LBaaSv2 driver finds an |agent| instance that has affinity with
      the load balancer's tenant, it assigns the request to that instance.
   -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   4. If the F5 LBaaSv2 driver doesn't find an |agent| instance that has affinity
      with the load balancer's :code:`tenant_id`, it selects an active |agent|
      instance at random.

      **The selected instance binds to the requested load balancer.**
      It will handle all future LBaaS requests for that load balancer.
   == ============================================================================

.. table:: Agent-tenant affinity for an existing load balancer

   == ============================================================================
   1. You update an existing load balancer
      (:code:`neutron lbaas-loadbalancer-update`).
   -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   2. The F5 LBaaSv2 driver checks the Neutron database to find out if an |agent|
      instance is already bound to the load balancer.
   -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   3. If the F5 LBaaSv2 driver doesn't find a bound |agent| instance for the
      load balancer, it looks for an instance that has affinity with the
      load balancer's tenant, then assigns the request to that instance.
   -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   4. If the F5 LBaaSv2 driver doesn't find an |agent| instance that has affinity
      with the load balancer's :code:`tenant_id`, it selects an active |agent|
      instance at random.

      **The selected instance binds to the requested load balancer.**
      It will handle all future LBaaS requests for that load balancer.
   == ============================================================================



.. important::

   If the |agent| bound to a load balancer is inactive, the F5 LBaaSv2 driver looks for other active agents with the same :ref:`environment prefix`.
   The F5 LBaaSv2 driver assigns the task to the first available agent it finds.
   The inactive |agent| remains bound to the load balancer, with the expectation that it will eventually come back online and be able to handle future requests.

   **If you delete an** |agent|, you should also delete all of its bound load balancers.

   To find all load balancers associated with a specific |agent| : ::

      neutron lbaas-loadbalancer-list-on-agent <agent-id>


Partnerships and certifications
-------------------------------

The |oslbaas| provides under-the-cloud multi-tenant infrastructure L4-L7 services for Neutron tenants.
In addition to community OpenStack participation, F5 maintains :ref:`partnerships <f5ospartners>` with several OpenStack platform vendors.
Each partner has a defined certification process that includes requirements for testing the |oslbaas| for vendor and community OpenStack compatibility.
See the :ref:`Solution test plan` for more information.

.. include:: /_static/reuse/see-also-lbaas.rst


.. rubric:: Footnotes
.. [#partners] Unsure how to get started with OpenStack? Consult one of F5's :ref:`OpenStack Platform Partners <f5ospartners>`.

.. _OpenStack Networking API: https://developer.openstack.org/api-ref/networking/v2/
